.TH VULNSCANNER 1 "March 2026" "VulnScanner" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vulnscanner \- local-first vulnerability intelligence and dependency policy scanner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vulnscanner
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.I COMMAND
.RI [ COMMAND_OPTIONS ]
.PP
Primary commands:
.br
.B nvd-sync
.br
.B kev-sync
.br
.B epss-sync
.br
.B scan-deps
.br
.B state
.br
.B cache
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vulnscanner
syncs public vulnerability intelligence feeds (NVD, KEV, EPSS), stores normalized
records in SQLite, scans dependency manifests through OSV, enriches findings with
local CVE context, and applies CI-friendly policy gates.
.PP
Use
.BR vulnscanner
global help and
.BR vulnscanner " COMMAND -h"
for command-specific help.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS nvd-sync
Sync NVD CVE deltas into the local database.
.PP
Usage:
.br
.B vulnscanner nvd-sync
.RI [ --since TIME ]
.RI [ --until TIME ]
.RI [ --debug ]
.TP
.B --since TIME
ISO8601 with timezone or relative time (for example: 7d, 12h, today, yesterday, now).
.TP
.B --until TIME
ISO8601 with timezone or relative time.
.TP
.B --debug
Enable debug logging and full traceback output.
.PP
Troubleshooting:
.br
If you encounter NVD 429 rate limiting, retry with a shorter range:
.br
.B vulnscanner nvd-sync --since 90d
.br
If NVD returns HTTP 404 while using an API key, retry without the key and regenerate it:
.br
.B unset NVD_API_KEY
.br
.B vulnscanner nvd-sync --since 7d --until now
.br
If long-window sync returns 0 CVEs, force-refresh enrichment caches:
.br
.B vulnscanner kev-sync --force
.br
.B vulnscanner epss-sync --force
.SS kev-sync
Sync CISA Known Exploited Vulnerabilities and update CVE exploitation flags.
.PP
Usage:
.br
.B vulnscanner kev-sync
.RI [ --force ]
.TP
.B --force
Bypass TTL freshness check and refresh immediately.
.SS epss-sync
Sync EPSS score feed and enrich matching CVEs.
.PP
Usage:
.br
.B vulnscanner epss-sync
.RI [ --force ]
.TP
.B --force
Bypass TTL freshness check and refresh immediately.
.SS scan-deps
Scan one manifest, render results, and enforce policy gates.
.PP
Usage:
.br
.B vulnscanner scan-deps
.I MANIFEST_PATH
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.PP
Supported manifests:
.br
package-lock.json, yarn.lock, pnpm-lock.yaml, poetry.lock, uv.lock,
Pipfile.lock, requirements.txt
.PP
Key options:
.TP
.B --format {table,json,csv,markdown,sarif}
Select output format.
.TP
.B --output FILE
Write rendered report to file.
.TP
.B --top N
Limit detailed rows in table/markdown output.
.TP
.B --summary-only
Show summary only for table/markdown output.
.TP
.B --sort-by {severity,epss,package,id}
Sort field for display rows.
.TP
.B --baseline FILE
Load previous JSON report for diff comparison.
.TP
.B --save-baseline FILE
Write current filtered findings to JSON baseline.
.TP
.B --new-only
With baseline, display only findings not in baseline.
.TP
.B --fail-on-new-only
With baseline, apply fail gates to only new findings.
.TP
.B --fail-on {low,medium,high,critical}
Fail policy when finding severity is at or above threshold.
.TP
.B --min-severity {low,medium,high,critical}
Filter output and policy set to this minimum severity.
.TP
.B --kev-only
Keep only known exploited findings.
.TP
.B --epss-min FLOAT
Keep only findings with EPSS >= value.
.TP
.B --fail-on-kev
Fail policy if any displayed finding is known exploited.
.TP
.B --fail-on-epss FLOAT
Fail policy if any displayed finding has EPSS >= value.
.TP
.B --policy {none,balanced,strict}
Apply policy preset defaults.
.TP
.B --no-network
Cache-only mode; skip live OSV calls.
.TP
.B --strict-cache
Requires no-network mode; fail if cache misses are detected.
.TP
.B --debug
Enable debug logging.
.SS state
Inspect or reset sync checkpoint metadata.
.PP
Subcommands:
.TP
.B state show
Show nvd_last_mod, kev_last_sync, epss_last_sync values.
.TP
.B state reset
Reset one or more sync checkpoint keys.
.SS cache
Inspect or clear cache tables.
.PP
Subcommands:
.TP
.B cache stats
Show table counts for cves, osv_cache, osv_vuln_cache, kev, epss.
.TP
.B cache clear
Clear selected targets (osv, osv-vuln, kev, epss) or all targets.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 10
Policy failure.
.TP
.B 11
Strict cache miss failure.
.TP
.B 12
Feed sync failure.
.TP
.B 13
Dependency scan execution failure.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
vulnscanner nvd-sync --since 7d --until now
vulnscanner kev-sync --force
vulnscanner scan-deps package-lock.json --policy strict
vulnscanner scan-deps poetry.lock --no-network --strict-cache
vulnscanner scan-deps package-lock.json --baseline reports/prev.json --new-only
vulnscanner scan-deps package-lock.json --save-baseline reports/new-baseline.json
vulnscanner cache stats --format json
vulnscanner state reset --key nvd_last_mod
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.B vulnscanner.db
Default SQLite database path (override with VULNSCANNER_DB).
.TP
.B docs/man/vulnscanner.1
Project manual page source.
.SH AUTHOR
therayyanawaz
.SH LICENSE
MIT. See LICENSE in the project root.
